---
title: "5 Reasons Why You're NOT Growing..."
description: ""
date: 2015-06-02
layout: post
---

![](/assets/images/skinny-guy.jpg){:class="img-fluid"}

At the start of everybody's gym career they have one of two goals
in mind. Either you want to get bigger, or you want to get smaller. In
this quick article I'm going to focus on the 5 main reasons you are not
getting bigger. I know that there are a lot of people with other, more
in depth reasons, why you're not growing but for this article I will
keep it short and simple for new lifters starting their first bulk. 5
simple reasons, and some quick fixes, to get you started.

**1. Not eating enough calories** You may think you eat a lot of food,
but you don't. Everybody has a different metabolic rate (rate at which
your body burns calories at rest). If you are trying to gain weight, I
have a good guess that yours is very high. You need to eat more, then
when you feel full, eat again. I never could grasp this until I went to
school and got my BMR (Basil Metablic Rate) measured on a special scale
(most commercial gyms have them). It said I burn 2438kcals at rest.
Then, wearing a HR/cal monitor (you can find them at sportcheck), I had
to figure out how many calories I was burning throughout the day. It
told me I was burning upwards of 10,000kcal/day (mind you at this time I
was practicing twice a day plus a weight training session). Now knowing
my output for the day I had to eat more than that to fuel and grow my
body. Its pretty simple. If you want to gain weight eat more calories
than you burn. if you want to lose weight, burn more calories than you
eat. SIMPLE.

**2. Your gym routine consists of isolation movements** doing bicep
curls and cable flys should not be in your program... well not at the
start of it anyway. Everyday you go into the gym your workout should
start with one of the following: Squats, Deadlifts, Cleans, Snatches,
Bench Press, Pull ups, Standing Shoulder Press or Lunges. Working
multiple muscle groups at the start of your workout not only warms up
the muscles and increases blood flow getting more oxygen and nutrients
to the torn muscles, but also gives you a greater hormone release and
testosterone boost. This is also the time when your body is the freshest
and you should use it to complete the hardest exercises.

**3. Fixed Movement Machines** Should not be in your routine. Plain and
simple as I stated in \#2. You don't get any core benefit from these
exercises. Working 1 muscle group is just not effective and unless you
have a serious injury and or are over the age of 65 I better not see you
trying to push the stack on the chest press.

**4. Lightweight** Are you challenging yourself every session? Can you
do more? For most people the answer is YES\! How do you expect to tear
and break down the muscle if you are lifting at 50% all the time. The
opposite is also true, lifting at 90-100% all the time isn't that
effective either. In my experience, working between 70-80% for reps of
8-10 and 4-6 sets works best. The easy way to judge this is if you are
not close to failing by the last rep of your set, you need to grab some
more weight.

**5. Not Enough Rest** This one probably should have been 2nd on the
list, but I put it last so you would remember it. "Muscles are broken
down in the gym and grow while you sleep" this was something one of my
first trainers told me and I have never forgotten it. Furthermore, don't
just aim for 8 hours of sleep every night, also aim to give each muscle
at least 72 hours to fully recover and grow between sessions. You can't
train your chest everyday and expect it to grow. The same goes for your
abs and every other muscle in your body.

So by taking these 5 easy tips and doing a little bit of homework before
you start your training you should be able to put a few pounds on over
the next few months. Remember there is a lot of hard work in building
muscle, if it was easy everybody would be jacked.
